So one of the two serialization formats or
wire formats that we're
going to talk about is XML.
And XML stands for
Extensible Markup Language.
And it is the older of the two formats
that we're going to talk about, and
it's kind of the heavier weight of the two.
Often developers, when given a choice,
would prefer the thing I'm going to tell
you next, which is JSON, or
JavaScript Object Notation.
But it turns out that XML has
some advantages, in particular
when you're doing documents, representing
things that are more like documents.
If you're just representing arrays and
stuff, then JSON tends to be better.
So, just because XML's a little harder,
sometimes it's better.
And so, if you look at the latest
Microsoft Word and PowerPoint formats,
they're named pptx, well that x stands for
XML, because if you were to look in them,
you would see that they use XML
to represent things like, oh,
the bold, italics, and the metadata
about your stuff, or whatever.
That's inside the .doc file or
the .ppt file,
XML is used to represent
the shape of the document.
And that's a good choice,
actually, to use XML to do it.
And so, XML is
basically a textual representation
of a tree structure of nodes.
And, it uses less thans and greater thans.
And so, you have a start tag like name
and /name and so less thans and
greater thans, and that's a start tag.
And a simple element is something that has
just a tag, some text, and another tag.
And a complex element is a tag
that starts and ends, but
then within it, it has other tags.
Okay? And so a complex element is simply
a tag that is intended
to include other tags.
And a simple element is a tag
that simply includes text.
And this is like a tree as
we'll talk about in a bit.
Another bit of terminology that's
important is the start tag
and the end tag.
So the end tag has the slash in it.
There's name, and a /name.
So as you work, look at these things.
You've got to match them up, right?
The end to end.
So phone and end phone.
And then in addition, on the start tag
you have what are called attributes.
Attributes are key-value pairs, and
it's generally, this is some key and
then there's a value and
we enclose this in quotes.
So type equals international, or
hide equals yes, and what do these mean?
Well it depends, right?
It depends on the application and
what data we are trying to represent.
And then the last thing that we
have is a bit of a XML syntax,
is what's called a self-closing tag.
So sometimes all the knowledge
that you want,
all the data you need to represent,
there is no data in between the tags.
So you just have the start tag and
end it with a />.
And that is,
there is no need to have /email
at the end of this thing, okay?
So that's called a self-closing tag.
So this again is just some terminology.
Start tag, end tag, textual content,
which is the stuff between two tags.
And then attribute, which is sort of,
its metadata on it.
So you tend to use this to describe it.
In this particular case, I'm saying okay,
this is an international phone number,
right?
And it's a way to put a metadata, but
the phone number itself is
that phone number, okay?
So that's just some XML terminology.
White space tends not to matter,
except sometimes in the textual area.
And it’s generally discarded.
And things like we indent and
all that, it’s just for readability.
And so, these two things
are roughly equivalent.
And some it’s all sort of pulled up,
and some it’s more indented.
And I could draw this in many ugly ways
with no indentation and extra newlines,
and extra white spaces.
It doesn't matter.
We tend not to want to look at that, and
often we'll use what's
called a pretty printer.
And so if you have some XML that's ugly,
you can cut and paste it and
type in Google.
Go to pretty print XML,
you can paste ugly-looking XML in
that's syntactically correct and
hit the button.
And it'll pretty print it with
all the indentation and stuff.
Because, if you're looking
at XML that doesn't indent,
our brains are really bad at parsing it.
Computers don't care,
but our brains do care.
So we tend to pretty print stuff and
all the stuff that I put in the slides,
I kind of make it reasonably pretty
so that I can look at it and know,
oh yeah, yeah this is the beginning and
that's the end without it just
being all gibberish and pulled up.
So white space technically doesn't matter,
but as we show each other XML we
tend to make it look really pretty.
So here's just a little bit of XML.
And so this is a recipe, and
there's a title for the recipe.
There is some attributes for it.
There's each ingredient
has some attributes.
Then it has the name of the ingredient.
Things can be in order.
We can have tags within tags.
Here's a multi-step thing.
So you get to name these things, right?
In HTML you don't get to.
You know, a paragraph is a p tag,
and a header one is h1 tag.
In XML you make them up and you use them
to describe actually something meaningful.
And these attributes like in HTML,
a href equals.
Right.
Somebody made this up.
Somebody told you that's how it is, and
that's what you got to do to make HTML.
But here, name equals prep_time,
cook_time.
This all has to do with
the application that's going to
create and/or use this data.
And so we create XML formats
based on what's most useful to us.
And this is how XML is so much more
useful to an application than, say, HTML.
Even though HTML is crude and effective,
and we can get stuff using HTML,
but it's so easy to break it.
But now we're in XML, and
it's pretty and it's elegant.
So I've already hit on these terminology.
Tags are the beginning and ends.
These key-value pairs are attributes.
And serializing is the act of taking
an internal data structure in some
programming language and
converting it to XML.
De-serializing is reading XML and
then converting it into some structure
inside the programming language
so we can actually look at the data
inside of that programming language.
Now when we start thinking about XML,
maybe we're designing XML or
maybe we're reading somebody else's XML.
As I mentioned at the beginning, XML is
really a textual representation as a tree.
And that's why we see it tend to indent,
you know, to capture the nesting.
But you can also kind of look at
this as a tree, and that is that
the a tag here has two child tags,
the b tag and the c tag.
Those are the tags that are sort
of one level down from the root,
which is the a tag.
And then if you look in the c tag
there's the d tag and the e tag.
And so those are the children.
So you can think of these as the parent,
and these are the child.
And then this, of course, becomes the
parent and this is the child, right?
And so it really is often very,
very helpful to think of this as a tree.
And when we write code that's
looking through it, sometimes
we'll actually drive down the tree
and back up the tree and
down this tree and back up,
and down, and back up.
As a way to, in effect, visit
all of the nodes in the tree, okay?
So that's one way to, when you see this,
mentally you should be able
to construct this tree.
The attributes and the text itself
are kind of like a child of the node.
So if we take a look at
this little bit of XML, and
we have the b tag and the end b tag and
then there is the text bit.
You can think of the text node itself,
the X,
which is the text body part of that node.
That's a child of the b node, but
another child is this attribute w.
And there might be many attributes.
In the text node,
there tends to be only one text node.
There's a text node and
then many attribute nodes, depending.
And that's kind of how we
mentally think of and
model the attributes and nodes,
and the text within nodes.
You can also think, and
it's totally equivalent,
to think of these things as having paths.
And it's kind of like folders
within folders within folders.
And then we concatenate sort of
the whole path down using slashes
typically to represent each step.
So / means the very top,
/a means this stuff,
and then /a/b means this thing.
And so if you were to ask what is at /a/b?
You would say, oh well I go to a then
I go to b, and what have I found?
Well I have found X,
and so that's why /a/b.
The other path is /a/c/d,
well what's there?
That's Y, okay?
And so you can think of these things
as what's the parent, what's the child?
Or you can sort of think of these
as sort of fully realized a, c, e
paths, which is the path to Z, okay?
All these are equivalent,
they're just all good ways to visualize,
in your mind, as a programmer.
Because what you're going to do as a
programmer is you're going to dig down and
find this Y thing.
And all these are way too simple, but you
kind of have to dig down and go down one,
down two, down three.
Oh, and then you go to the fourth one,
and then grab this other thing.
And that's how you pull out a header
of a document or something. Okay?
And somebody will tell us what
this XML is supposed to look like.
So that's XML itself,
But in order to make life better between
two applications, we need a contract.
And a contract as to what is valid and
not valid XML, so
that two applications don't have to argue.
So that's what we'll talk about next.